
This chapter is directed at everyone, especially men!! And especially those men who think they don't need it because they are "already doing everything right".

At this point I think if you are a woman you have to talk about things like this. Not because it is expected of you, but because it is crucial and noone else will talk about it or even care if the people directly effected don't bring it up over and over again. And because the ignorance has been bothering me for a while now, I think it's time for me to write this chapter to get it out of my system so that anytime I need to have this discussion with someone I can just refer them to this page. 

I know many people are truly bothered by the low percentage of women and/or AFAB people who are interested in comuter science and many of these people genuinely want to help. My personal experience is that the methods that people use can sometimes range from not-very effective to actually worsening the problem. I collected the problems I identified with these methods, try to explain why they are harmful and offer ways that might be more beneficial.

### 1. Think about the way you view women and girls

This chapter is mainly directed at men who want to make the computer science space a better place to women.

In my experience, too many men view women solely as potential romantic partners. Even if they don't intend to date these specific girls or women, they still often view them as "others". Men often don't know how to approach women and girls in a friendly manner because they are afraid of intimidating them. So they usually don't approach. Unfortunately, as a woman, one cannot really study computer science without talking to men. There's often just not enough women to do that. So this behaviour (the not-approaching) leads to women feeling more alone and more intimidated. They see that a group has formed where people are friendly to each other, but they are not part of the group because noone is friendly to them. So even if you as a man are scared to talk to women (we are still talking about friendliness and NOT romantic interest!), then keep in mind that in this case she is the outsider and could possibly feel more scared to approach someone in the group than you are of approaching her. 

In female dominated online spaces, women often describe how they feel ignored and left out of the "boys club" - especially because boys and men often have typical "manly" interests and ways of communication that women are often not so familiar/comfortable with. Being ignored by the main group can also push women in the arms of creepy men with worse intentions, since they are the only ones who are not afraid to approach women. To present a personal anecdote, when I started my studies I knew many guys who had much more programming experience than I had. They were always talking about programming and they were so enthusiastic about it, I thought it would be impossible for me to say anything that would interest them. The one older guy I used to hang out with then was, in retrospect, very problematic. 

On the other hand, IF men show interest in women, it is mostly becuase of romantic interest. Sadly, many men are so desperate that they see every woman as a potential partner, even if they are the woman's teacher or mentor, even if she's a lot younger and barely a legal adult (or not even yet). It is of course understandable that because there are so few women in compuiter science circles, men get more desparate and try to date every woman with somewhat similar interests. The problem is that this leads to women LEAVING computer science. The main causes that women state for leaving technical jobs is harassment and gender-based discrimination (we'll get to that). So ironically, the more desparately you try to get a date, the smaller your dating pool gets. That, of course, doesn't mean that it is always wrong to romantically approach women. However, there are situations where it is especially inappropriate. For example, if you are currently mentoring a woman, if she is in the class you are teaching or if you are privately tutoring her. In other words, if there is a clear power imbalance. Many women have stories of leaving jobs or dropping courses because they were hit on by their mentor/instructor - this obviously effects their relationship with computer science spaces a lot. You will probably not know, how many women and girls you scared off, because they mostly just quietly start avoiding you (or your whole department, or computer science in general) without giving you any explanation why. Often though, women don't think they can afford to leave (maybe they had a hard time landing this job, maybe it is a mandatory course). That can lead to a very uncomfortable or even straight-up miserable time for the woman (or both people). Not to mention, the person in power (the man in this case) can leverage this power against her. I know many men who are aware of this and wouldn't hit on women in this situation, but I also know many men who don't quite have a good understanding of these power imbalances. 


### 2. See the potential in women/girls just as much as you see it in men/boys

